      INSTALL_VMS.txt -- Zip Installation Supplement for VMS (OpenVMS)
      ================================================================

   Zip version 3.1.  Revised: 2017-01-27.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

      Unpack the Source Kit(s)
      ------------------------

   Zip is normally distributed as a Zip archive (which requires some
kind of unzip program to unpack), or as a gzip-compressed "tar" archive
(which requires programs like "gzip" and "tar" to unpack).  A Zip
archive is usually the more convenient form for a VMS user.  If an UnZip
program is not already available on the target system, pre-built UnZip
programs for VMS may be found in many freeware collections, and on the
Info-ZIP server:

      ftp://ftp.info-zip.org/pub/infozip/vms/

   To unpack the Zip source kit, choose a suitable working directory,
and unzip the Zip kit there.  For example:

      SET DEFAULT dev:[dir.zip]         ! Some convenient directory.
      UNZIP zip31.zip                   ! Unpack the Zip source kit.

If the Zip kit is elsewhere, specify its actual location:

      UNZIP dn_ld_dev:[dn_ld_dir]zip31.zip

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

      Optional Source Kits
      --------------------

   Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) Encryption
   ---------------------------------------------

   All the source files needed to enable support for AES encryption are
included in a normal Zip source kit.  Information about AES encryption
in Info-ZIP programs can normally be found in the file
[.aes_wg]README_AES_WG.txt.

      For export control reasons, it may be possible to find a Zip
      source kit from which these files have been removed.  If the files
      in the [.aes_wg] subdirectory are missing, then the simplest
      solution is to fetch a complete source kit from any of the usual
      places.  For more information if the [.aes_wg]README_AES_WG.txt
      file is missing, it should also be available at:

            ftp://ftp.info-zip.org/pub/infozip/crypt/README_AES_WG.txt

   See the "Build" section, below, for details on how to build Zip
with or without AES encryption support.

     The IZ_AES_WG code may be too modern for VAX C.

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

   Bzip2 Compression
   -----------------

   All the source files needed to enable support for the bzip2
compression method are included in the Zip source kit.  The [.bzip2]
subdirectory contains a bzip2 (version 1.0.6) source kit, with some
modifications for better VMS compatibility.  For general information on
bzip2 compression, or to download a different bzip2 source kit:

      http://www.bzip.org/

   For a more VMS-friendly kit:

      http://antinode.info/dec/sw/bzip2.html

   By default, the Zip builders for VMS will use the bzip2 source kit
which is included in the Zip source kit to create the required bzip2
object library.  The builders can also use an existing bzip2 object
library, which is supplied by the user.  For details on how to use an
existing bzip2 object library, or how to disable bzip2 compression
support, look for IZ_BZIP2 in the "Build" section below.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

      Build
      -----

   On VMS, two build methods are provided: a DCL command procedure, and
description files for MMS or MMK.  Both methods must be run from the
main source directory, not the [.vms] subdirectory.

   A simple build using the command procedure looks like this:

      @ [.vms]build_zip.com

   A simple build using MMS or MMK looks like this:

     MMS /DESCRIP = [.vms]descrip.mms   ! Using MMS.
     MMK /DESCRIP = [.vms]descrip.mms   ! Using MMK.

   Various options for each build method are explained in comments in
each main builder file, either [.vms]build_zip.com or
[.vms]descrip.mms.  Principal build options are described in the
following section.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

      Build Options
      -------------

   This section describes the principal build options.

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

   Compilers on VAX
   ----------------

   On VAX, the builders attempt to cope with the various available C
compilers: DEC/Compaq/HP C, VAX C, or GNU C.  If DEC/Compaq/HP C is not
available or not desired, comments in each main builder file explain the
command-line options used to select a different compiler.  Some of the
more modern optional features may use C language features which VAX C
does not support.

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

   Large-File Support
   ------------------

   Support for archives and member files larger than 2GB is available on
Alpha systems with VMS V7.2 or later (and with a sufficiently new C
compiler), and on all IA64 systems.  Large-file support is not available
on VAX.  By default, the builders will enable large-file support where
it is available.  (Note that Zip versions before 3.1d (BETA) required
the user to request large-file support explicitly.  Now it must be
disabled explicitly, if it's not desired.)

      On Alpha, the builders will initially assume that large-file
      support is available, but will test large-file support before
      continuing.  If large-file support is not available, the build
      will fail, and a message will advise the user to add "NOLARGE" to
      the build command.

   To disable large-file support using the DCL builder, use a command
like the following:

      @ [.vms]build_zip.com NOLARGE

   Using the MMS or MMK builder (MMS shown):

     MMS /DESCRIP = [.vms]descrip.mms /MACRO = (NOLARGE=1)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

   Bzip2 Compression
   -----------------

   By default, suppport for the bzip2 compression method is enabled, and
the required source code is included in the Zip source kit.  By
default, the builders will use the bzip2 source kit in the [.bzip2]
subdirectory to build the required bzip2 object library.

   To disable it, add the appropriate option to the builder command
line.  For example:

         @ [.vms]build_zip NOIZ_BZIP2
      or:
         MMS /DESC = [.vms] /MACRO = (NOIZ_BZIP2)

   Users who regularly work with multiple Zip versions (or optional
configurations) can avoid repeatedly building the bzip2 object library
by manually building a bzip2 object library (with BZ_NO_STDIO defined)
in some common location.  Then, when building Zip, specify that bzip2
directory as the value of the MMS macro IZ_BZIP2.  For example:

         @ [.vms]build_zip -
          IZ_BZIP2=SYS$SYSDEVICE:[UTILITY.SOURCE.BZIP2.BZIP2-1_0_6A_VMS]
      or:
         MMS /DESC = [.vms] /MACRO = -
          IZ_BZIP2=SYS$SYSDEVICE:[UTILITY.SOURCE.BZIP2.BZIP2-1_0_6A_VMS]

   Defining a logical name for the bzip2 directory can simplify commands
like these:

         DEFINE IZ_BZIP2_106 -
          SYS$SYSDEVICE:[UTILITY.SOURCE.BZIP2.BZIP2-1_0_6A_VMS]

         @ [.vms]build_zip IZ_BZIP2=IZ_BZIP2_106
      or:
         MMS /DESC = [.vms] /MACRO = (IZ_BZIP2=IZ_BZIP2_106)


      Note that historically, Zip has been built with the default
      compiler option, /NAMES = UPPERCASE, while bzip2 is normally built
      with /NAMES = AS_IS, to avoid name collisions in the bzip2 code.
      With modern compilers, the "#pragma names" directives in
      [.vms]bzlib.h will handle these differences without user
      intervention.  An old compiler (for example, DEC C V4.0-000) will
      emit complaints %CC-I-UNKNOWNPRAGMA, and will mishandle the bzip2
      library function names, which will cause the link to fail.  To
      solve this problem, either build the bzip2 BZ_NO_STDIO object
      library with /NAMES = UPPERCASE, or else build Zip with
      /NAMES = AS_IS.  For example:

         @ [.vms]build_zip "CCOPTS=/NAMES=AS_IS" IZ_BZIP2=IZ_BZIP2_106
      or:
         MMS /DESC = [.vms] /MACRO = ("CCOPTS=/NAMES=AS_IS", -
          IZ_BZIP2=IZ_BZIP2_106)

      The compiler will still emit the %CC-I-UNKNOWNPRAGMA complaints,
      and MMS may emit %MMS-W-GWKACTNOUPD complaints (or, with MMK:
      %MMK-I-ACTNOUPD), but the link (and the program) should work.

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

   LZMA and PPMd Compression Methods
   ---------------------------------

   By default, support for the LZMA and PPMd compression methods (new in
Zip version 3.1) is enabled.  The required source code is included
in the Zip source kit.  The code used to implement these compression
methods is generally written to newer C language standards than the base
Info-ZIP code, so some very old compilers may be unable to build Zip
if these features are enabled.

   To disable support for LZMA and/or PPMd compression, add the
appropriate option to the builder command line.  For example:

         @ [.vms]build_zip NOLZMA NOPPMD
      or:
         MMS /DESC = [.vms] /MACRO = (NOLZMA=1, NOPPMD=1)

   Note that the LZMA compression code used by Zip currently uses a
"long long" type which is not available on VAX, so NOLZMA must be
specified on VAX, or the build will fail.

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

   Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) Encryption
   ---------------------------------------------

   By default, support for AES_WG encryption is enabled if the AES_WG
source files are present in the [.aes_wg] subdirectory.  To disable it,
add the appropriate option to the builder command line.  For example:

         @ [.vms]build_zip NO_AES_WG
      or:
         MMS /DESC = [.vms] /MACRO = (NO_AES_WG=1)

   The code used to implement AES_WG encryption is generally written to
newer C language standards than the base Info-ZIP code, so some very old
compilers may be unable to build Zip if this feature is enabled.

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

   Traditional Zip Encryption
   --------------------------

   By default, support for Traditional Zip encryption is enabled.  To
disable it, the C macro NO_CRYPT must be defined at build time.  This
can be done by adding NO_CRYPT to the LOCAL_ZIP symbol/macro.  For
example:

         LOCAL_ZIP == "NO_CRYPT"
         @ [.vms]build_zip
      or:
         MMS /DESC = [.vms] /MACRO = ("LOCAL_ZIP=NO_CRYPT")

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

      More Complex Build Examples
      ---------------------------

   When doing complex or multiple builds, note that the MMS (or MMK)
builders offer a set of CLEAN* targets, which can be used to remove some
or all old build products (object files, object libraries, executables,
and so on).  It's usually a good idea to do some kind of "MMS CLEAN"
before making significant changes to the build options.  The DCL-script
builder, [.vms]build_zip.com, has no such options, so its users must
manually clean out any old build products when necessary, including any
bzip2 products which are created under the [.bzip2] subdirectory.

   Here are some more complex build examples:

   o Build with the large-file option disabled (non-VAX, typically used
     only on old Alpha systems):

        @ [.vms]build_zip NOLARGE
     or:
        MMS /DESC = [.vms] /MACRO = NOLARGE=1

   o Re-link the executables:

        @ [.vms]build_zip NOCOMPILE
     or
        MMK /DESC = [.vms] CLEAN_EXE  ! Delete existing executables.
        MMK /DESC = [.vms]            ! Build new executables.

   o Build from scratch, for debug, getting compiler listings and link
     maps:

        MMS /DESC = [.vms] CLEAN
        MMS /DESC = [.vms] /MACRO = (DBG=1, LIST=1)


   Another build option, HELP_TEXT, can be used to create formatted,
plain-text HELP output files.  These files, ZIP.HTX and ZIP_CLI.HTX,
contain the results of a command like "HELP ZIP..." using the help
source files for the UNIX-like command line and the VMS-like command
line, respectively.  For example:

      @ [.vms]build_zip HELP_TEXT
   or:
      MMS /DESC = [.vms] HELP_TEXT

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

   Destination Directories
   -----------------------

   By default, system-architecture-specific files (like objects and
executables) are placed in separate subdirectories, such as [.ALPHA],
[.IA64], or [.VAX].  Large-file products get their own subdirectories,
[.ALPHAL] or [.IA64L].  On VAX, VAX C products are placed in [.VAXV],
GNU C products in [.VAXG].  If desired, the user may specify some other
subdirectory, using the PROD option/macro.  For example, to build
programs without large-file support or any optional compression methods
in a [.ALPHA_BASIC] subdirectory:

         @ [.vms]build_zip NOLARGE NOIZ_BZIP2 NOLZMA NOPPMD -
          PROD=ALPHA_BASIC
      or:
         MMS /DESC = [.vms] /MACRO = (NOLARGE=1, NOIZ_BZIP2=1, -
          NOLZMA=1, NOPPMD=1, PROD=ALPHA_BASIC)

   The PROD=dest_dir feature makes it easier to build multiple Zip
variants with different options using the same source tree.

      Note that if PROD=dest_dir is specified for a build, then it must
      also be specified for other builder operations, such as TEST or
      CLEAN, which use the destination directory.

      Note that PROD=dest_dir has no effect on any automatically built
      bzip2 object library, so it's generally safer to use a pre-built
      bzip2 object library in an external directory when using PROD,
      especially when using one source tree for different hardware
      architectures.

   Each product builder announces what the destination directory will be
when it is run.

   Common files, such as the help library source files (ZIP.HLP for
the default UNIX-like command-line interface, ZIP_CLI.HLP for the
VMS-like command-line interface) are placed in the main directory.  With
a mixed-architecture VMS cluster, the same main directory on a shared
disk may be used by all system types.  (Using the NOHELP option with
build_zip.com can keep it from making the same help files repeatedly.)
Building the help files is detailed below.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

      Test
      ----

   After a successful build, a "zip -v" or "ZIP_CLI /VERBOSE"
report can be generated using the builders:

      @ [.vms]build_zip DASHV
      @ [.vms]build_zip SLASHV
   or:
      MMS /DESC = [.vms] DASHV
      MMS /DESC = [.vms] SLASHV

   If "PROD=dest_dir" was specified for the build, then it must be
specified here, too.  (On VAX, also specify same the compiler option:
VAXC, ...)  Other normal build options are allowed, but not required.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

      Install
      -------

   To complete the installation, the executables may be left in place,
or moved (or copied) to a convenient place.  While other methods (like
DCL$PATH) exist, it is usual to define symbols to make the Zip
executables available as foreign commands.  These symbol definitions may
be placed in a user's SYS$LOGIN:LOGIN.COM, or in a more central
location, like SYS$MANAGER:SYLOGIN.COM.  Typical symbol definitions
might look like these:

   ZIP :== $ dev:[dir]ZIP.EXE           ! UNIX-like command line.
or:
   ZIP :== $ dev:[dir]ZIP_CLI.EXE       ! VMS-like command line.

On a non-VAX system, different symbols could be defined for the
small-file and large-file programs.  For example:
					
   ZIPS  :== $ dev:[dir.ALPHA]ZIP.EXE   ! ZIPS = small-file Zip.
   ZIP*L :== $ dev:[dir.ALPHAL]ZIP.EXE  ! ZIP[L]= large-file Zip.


   The builders create help library source files, ZIP.HLP and
ZIP_CLI.HLP.  These may be incorporated into an existing help library,
or a separate Zip help library may be created using commands like
the following, using either ZIP.HLP (as shown) or ZIP_CLI.HLP:

      LIBRARY /HELP dev:[dir]existing_library.HLB ZIP.HLP

      LIBRARY /CREATE /HELP ZIP.HLB ZIP.HLP

Zip help may then be accessed from a separate Zip help library using
a command like:

      HELP /LIBRARY = device:[directory]ZIP.HLB

   For greater ease, the user (or system manager) may define a
HLP$LIBRARY logical name to allow the HELP utility to find the Zip
help library automatically.  See HELP HELP /USERLIBRARY for more
details. The command procedure [.vms]hlp_lib_next.com may be used to
determine the next available HLP$LIBRARY logical name, and could be
adapted to define a HLP$LIBRARY logical name for a Zip help library.

   The builders also create VMS message files, ZIP_MSG.EXE, in the
destination directory with the program executables.  A user may gain DCL
access to the Zip error messages using a command like:

      SET MESSAGE device:[directory]ZIP_MSG.EXE

For system-wide access, the system manager may move or copy this file to
SYS$MESSAGE, although this could cause some confusion if multiple
versions of Zip are used on the system, and their error message source
files differ.

