.\" =========================================================================
.\" Copyright (c) 1990-2019 Info-ZIP.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" See the accompanying file LICENSE, version 2009-Jan-2 or later
.\" (the contents of which are also included in zip.h) for terms of use.
.\" If, for some reason, all these files are missing, the Info-ZIP license
.\" also may be found at:  ftp://ftp.info-zip.org/pub/infozip/license.html
.\" ==========================================================================
.\"
.\" zipnote.1 by E. Gordon for Zip 3.0, 3.1
.\"
.TH ZIPNOTE 1 "1 January 2019 (v3.1)" Info-ZIP
.SH NAME
zipnote \- write the comments in zipfile to stdout, edit comments and rename files in zipfile (v3.1)

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B zipnote
.RB [ \-w ]
.RB [ \-b\ \fPpath ]
.RB [ \-h ]
.RB [ \-q ]
.RB [ \-u ]
.RB [ \-v ]
.RB [ \-L ]
zipfile

.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
zipfile
Zipfile to read comments from or edit.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B zipnote
writes the comments in a zipfile to stdout.  This is the default mode.  A second mode
allows updating the comments in a zipfile as well as allows changing the names
of the files in the zipfile.  These modes are described below.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.PD 0
.B \-b\ \fRpath
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-temp-dir\ \fRpath
Use path for the temporary zip file.

.TP
.PD 0
.B \-h
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-help\ \ \ \
Show a short help.

.TP
.PD 0
.B \-hh
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-more-help
Show more help.

.TP
.PD 0
.B \-L
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-license
Show software license.  (\fB\-l\fR also works, but this should be considered
deprecated.)

.TP
.PD 0
.B \-q
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-quiet
Quieter operation, suppress some informational messages.

.TP
.PD 0
.B \-so
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-show-options
Show all available options on this system.

.TP
.PD 0
.B \-u
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-unicode
Output UTF-8 paths.  For backward compatibility, without this option only
simple ASCII paths/names are output and Unicode in paths are escaped.
Comments are output as is, so already support UTF-8.

.TP
.PD 0
.B \-v
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-version
Show version information.

.TP
.PD 0
.B \-w
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-write
Write comments to a zipfile from stdin (see below).


.SH EXAMPLES
To write all comments in a zipfile to stdout use for example:
.LP
.nf
     zipnote foo.zip > foo.tmp
.fi
.LP
This writes all comments in the zipfile
.I foo.zip
to the file
.I foo.tmp
in a specific format.

.LP
If desired, this file can then be edited to change the comments and then used
to update the zipfile.
.LP
.nf
     zipnote -w foo.zip < foo.tmp
.fi
.LP
The names of the files in the zipfile can also be changed in this way.  This is done by
following lines like
.nf
     "@ name"
.fi
in the created temporary file (called
.I foo.tmp
here) with lines like
.nf
     "@=newname"
.fi
and then using the -w option as above.

Note that \fBzip 3.1\fR has the \fB\-c\fR and \fB\-z\fR options to set and modify
entry and archive comments, respectively.  However, \fBzipnote\fR is still the
most efficient way to modify comments and entry names/paths in bulk.  Also, even
though \fBzip\fR has the \fB\-pa\fR and \fB\-pp\fR options to prepend to entry
paths, it still does not have a way to modify entry names/paths in a general way.

When the \fb-u\fR option is used, UTF-8 paths and comments in the comments file
are recognized and the UTF-8 bit set as needed when the file is read in.

.SH BUGS
The temporary file format is rather specific and zipnote is rather picky about it.
It should be easier to change file names in a script.

Does not yet support writing large (> 2 GB) or split archives.

When using the UTF-8 extra fields in \fBzip 3.1\fR (option \fB\-UL\fR) and so storing
local character set paths in the main name/path fields, \fBzipnote\fR only updates
the local names/paths, not the UTF-8 paths.  This can cause discrepancies between
the local and UTF-8 versions of paths.  However, as the default now is to
use UTF-8 main fields instead of the extra fields, \fBzipnote\fR is now operating
on UTF-8 names/paths for these archives.  There are still some quirks with the
tmp file format handling UTF-8.  The \-u option now allows processing UTF-8 paths
and comments as UTF-8 and sets the UTF-8 bit for an entry when UTF-8 is found.

.SH SEE ALSO
zip(1), unzip(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Info-ZIP
